We measure many aspects of technology performance numerically, from the amount of gas  a vehicle consumes per mile to the number of transistors per square inch of an integrated circuit. We track the changes of these numerical features over time, and use historical rates of change to predict future performance. Of course, we cannot take for granted that the numerical features in question will continue to change at the same rate; generally, the representations we arrive at have required massive simplification of a complex technical phenomenon. Our technical progression may run into any number of limiting factors, for example. These can be physical, economic, political, or some combination thereof (and of course this is by no means an exhaustive list). Consider, for example, the possibility that we are now reaching a level of environmental depletion that could change the game entirely, destabilizing the flows of materials, resources, and expertise that have made the rapid technological advances of the past century possible.

The possible is infinitely larger than the actual. We can imagine it as the power set of the actual, the set of all possible subsets of the actual, which is itself an infinite set of sets of things. To the possible belongs every possible action by every possible actor.

Creation exceeds intention. This is the innermost treasure of the writing process, yet also its perpetual frustration. Our best passages reveal something to us as we write them, our statements state more than we expect. Thus the harder we try to articulate something true, the more the truth of our statements escapes from us. This is the reason we must tolerate, and even celebrate, continualy slipping into error as we write, for we must often cede victory to a small distortion in order to articulate a greater truth. We aim at truth, but we fire shotgun blasts.

What is true for writing is also true for the creation of new technologies. 

Think of the past few centuries as a protracted conversation on what is technically possible. One on side, a chorus of voices proclaiming what cannot be done, and on the other, the nasally voice of an engineer: "well, <i>technically<i>, we can do such and such, it IS possible. Flight, computation, the depletion of seemingly endless natural resources. We now wisely refrain from proclaiming anything at all impossible, except perhaps those things that are logically or physically impossible. Even the boundaries of the latter are unclear. 

The philosopher Martin Heidegger argued that we ought to understand technology not just as a set of artifacts and devices for accomplishing various ends, but also in terms of its Greek roots - techne and logos. Logos we can translate as word or discourse, while techne, according to Heidegger, referred not just to instrumental contrivances but also to the realm of artistic creation. Broadly speaking, techne meant that which is brought forth out of concealment within the possible by and through human action. There is an aspect of revealing, of unveiling, as well as of creation in this word. Technology, thus understood, is "the discourse on bringing forth." And indeed, more and more our conversations on technology take this turn: What will we bring forth? The question weighs on us with an ever-increasing urgency.

We are inescapably and essentially inhabitants of the possible as well as the actual. It is a peculiarity of human existence to be swept up into the future by hope, curiosity, and anxiety. We battle for mindfulness, and we try to remain "present". Yet we always and necessarily live not just in light of present circumstances but also in anticipation of what the future might bring. Who can say what is possible? One minute we groan about the tedium and mundanity that have overtaken our lives, and the next minute we find everything in flux. The solid melts quickly into air. The bushes outside my apartment caught fire as I wrote this. 

The category of the possible is thus of primary importance to use. We spend a good portion of our finite lives agonizing over things that never come to pass. Good fortune and misfortune can strike at any moment, reminding us that the possible is never fully constrained by our imagination of it. We constantly ask what is next, and we never know what is coming. No full catalogue of the possible is possible; it is of a greater cardinality than the infinite well of human speculations and expectations.

Yet at many points in our lives we do realize our plans and complete our projects, aided by life's regularities and equilibria. We expend considerable resources pursuing the facets of life most able to stabilize our efforts: money, possessions, spare time. And more than ever, at least in the developed world, we rely on our technical syystems to produce steadily available streams of outputs.

We must understand technology not just as a set of tools, instruments, and artifacts, but also as a discourse. 

There is no question that we live in a new era of technical challenges. 
